README.md, before:

# privacy.sexy

> Enforce privacy & security best-practices on Windows, because privacy is sexy 🍑🍆

[![contributions welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](./CONTRIBUTING.md)
[![Language grade: JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/context:javascript)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/3a70b7ef602e2264342c/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/maintainability)
[![Tests status](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/workflows/Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/actions)
[![Quality checks status](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/workflows/Quality%20checks/badge.svg)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/actions)
[![Security checks status](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/workflows/Security%20checks/badge.svg)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/actions)
[![Bump & release status](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/workflows/Bump%20&%20release/badge.svg)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/actions)
[![Deploy status](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/workflows/Build%20&%20deploy/badge.svg)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/actions)
[![Auto-versioned by bump-everywhere](https://github.com/undergroundwires/bump-everywhere/blob/master/badge.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/bump-everywhere)

## Get started

- Online version: [https://privacy.sexy](https://privacy.sexy)
  - or download latest desktop version for [Windows](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/releases/download/0.8.2/privacy.sexy-Setup-0.8.2.exe), [Linux](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/releases/download/0.8.2/privacy.sexy-0.8.2.AppImage), [macOS](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/releases/download/0.8.2/privacy.sexy-0.8.2.dmg)
- 💡 Come back regularly to apply latest version for stronger privacy and security.

[![privacy.sexy application](img/screenshot.png)](https://privacy.sexy)

## Why

- Rich tweak pool to harden security & privacy of the OS and other software on it
- Free (both free as in beer and free as in speech)
- No need to run any compiled software that has access to your system, just run the generated scripts
- Have full visibility into what the tweaks do as you enable them
- Ability to revert (undo) applied scripts
- Everything is transparent: both application and its infrastructure are open-source and automated
- Easily extendable

## Extend scripts

- Fork it & add more scripts in [application.yaml](src/application/application.yaml) and send a pull request 👌
- 📖 If you're unsure about the syntax you can refer to the [application file | documentation](docs/application-file.md).
- 🙏 For any new script, please add `revertCode` and `docs` values if possible.

## Commands

- Project setup: `npm install`
- Testing
  - Run unit tests: `npm run test:unit`
  - Lint: `npm run lint`
- **Desktop app**
  - Development: `npm run electron:serve`
  - Production: `npm run electron:build` to build an executable
- **Webpage**
  - Development: `npm run serve` to compile & hot-reload for development.
  - Production: `npm run build` to prepare files for distribution.
  - Or run using Docker:
    1. Build: `docker build -t undergroundwires/privacy.sexy:0.8.2 .`
    2. Run: `docker run -it -p 8080:80 --rm --name privacy.sexy-0.8.2 undergroundwires/privacy.sexy:0.8.2`

## Architecture

### Application

- Powered by **TypeScript**, **Vue.js** and **Electron** 💪
  - and driven by **Domain-driven design**, **Event-driven architecture**, **Data-driven programming** concepts.
- Application uses highly decoupled models & services in different DDD layers.
  - **Domain layer** is where the application is modelled with validation logic.
  - **Presentation Layer**
    - Consists of Vue.js components and other UI-related code.
    - Desktop application is created using [Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/).
    - Event driven as in components simply listens to events from the state and act accordingly.
  - **Application Layer**
    - Keeps the application state
      - The [state](src/application/Context/State/CategoryCollectionState.ts) is a mutable singleton & event producer.
    - The application is defined & controlled in a [single YAML file](src/application/application.yaml) (see [Data-driven programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data-driven_programming))

![DDD + vue.js](img/architecture/app-ddd.png)

### AWS Infrastructure

[![AWS solution](img/architecture/aws-solution.png)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/aws-static-site-with-cd)

- It uses infrastructure from the following repository: [aws-static-site-with-cd](https://github.com/undergroundwires/aws-static-site-with-cd)
  - Runs on AWS 100% serverless and automatically provisioned using [GitHub Actions](.github/workflows/).
  - Maximum security & automation and minimum AWS costs are the highest priorities of the design.

#### GitOps: CI/CD to AWS

- CI/CD is fully automated for this repo using different GIT events & GitHub actions.
  - Versioning, tagging, creation of `CHANGELOG.md` and releasing is automated using [bump-everywhere](https://github.com/undergroundwires/bump-everywhere) action
- Everything that's merged in the master goes directly to production.

[![CI/CD to AWS with GitHub Actions](img/architecture/gitops.png)](.github/workflows/)

Commit message:

refactor to allow switching ICategoryCollection context #40

README.md, after:

# privacy.sexy

> Enforce privacy & security best-practices on Windows, because privacy is sexy 🍑🍆

[![contributions welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](./CONTRIBUTING.md)
[![Language grade: JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/context:javascript)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/3a70b7ef602e2264342c/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/maintainability)
[![Tests status](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/workflows/Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/actions)
[![Quality checks status](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/workflows/Quality%20checks/badge.svg)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/actions)
[![Security checks status](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/workflows/Security%20checks/badge.svg)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/actions)
[![Bump & release status](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/workflows/Bump%20&%20release/badge.svg)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/actions)
[![Deploy status](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/workflows/Build%20&%20deploy/badge.svg)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/actions)
[![Auto-versioned by bump-everywhere](https://github.com/undergroundwires/bump-everywhere/blob/master/badge.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/bump-everywhere)

## Get started

- Online version: [https://privacy.sexy](https://privacy.sexy)
  - or download latest desktop version for [Windows](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/releases/download/0.8.2/privacy.sexy-Setup-0.8.2.exe), [Linux](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/releases/download/0.8.2/privacy.sexy-0.8.2.AppImage), [macOS](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy/releases/download/0.8.2/privacy.sexy-0.8.2.dmg)
- 💡 Come back regularly to apply latest version for stronger privacy and security.

[![privacy.sexy application](img/screenshot.png)](https://privacy.sexy)

## Why

- Rich tweak pool to harden security & privacy of the OS and other software on it
- Free (both free as in beer and free as in speech)
- No need to run any compiled software that has access to your system, just run the generated scripts
- Have full visibility into what the tweaks do as you enable them
- Ability to revert (undo) applied scripts
- Everything is transparent: both application and its infrastructure are open-source and automated
- Easily extendable

## Extend scripts

- Fork it & add more scripts in [application.yaml](src/application/application.yaml) and send a pull request 👌
- 📖 If you're unsure about the syntax you can refer to the [application file | documentation](docs/application-file.md).
- 🙏 For any new script, please add `revertCode` and `docs` values if possible.

## Commands

- Project setup: `npm install`
- Testing
  - Run unit tests: `npm run test:unit`
  - Lint: `npm run lint`
- **Desktop app**
  - Development: `npm run electron:serve`
  - Production: `npm run electron:build` to build an executable
- **Webpage**
  - Development: `npm run serve` to compile & hot-reload for development.
  - Production: `npm run build` to prepare files for distribution.
  - Or run using Docker:
    1. Build: `docker build -t undergroundwires/privacy.sexy:0.8.2 .`
    2. Run: `docker run -it -p 8080:80 --rm --name privacy.sexy-0.8.2 undergroundwires/privacy.sexy:0.8.2`

## Architecture

### Application

- Powered by **TypeScript**, **Vue.js** and **Electron** 💪
  - and driven by **Domain-driven design**, **Event-driven architecture**, **Data-driven programming** concepts.
- Application uses highly decoupled models & services in different DDD layers.
  - **Domain layer** is where the application is modelled with validation logic.
  - **Presentation Layer**
    - Consists of Vue.js components and other UI-related code.
    - Desktop application is created using [Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/).
    - Event driven as in components simply listens to events from the state and act accordingly.
  - **Application Layer**
    - Keeps the application state using [state pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_pattern)
    - [ApplicationContext](src/application/Context/ApplicationContext.ts)
      - Holds the [CategoryCollectionState](src/application/Context/State/CategoryCollectionState.ts)] for each OS
      - Same instance is shared throughout the application
    - The application is defined & controlled in a [single YAML file](src/application/application.yaml) using[data-driven programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data-driven_programming)

![DDD + vue.js](img/architecture/app-ddd.png)

### AWS Infrastructure

[![AWS solution](img/architecture/aws-solution.png)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/aws-static-site-with-cd)

- It uses infrastructure from the following repository: [aws-static-site-with-cd](https://github.com/undergroundwires/aws-static-site-with-cd)
  - Runs on AWS 100% serverless and automatically provisioned using [GitHub Actions](.github/workflows/).
  - Maximum security & automation and minimum AWS costs are the highest priorities of the design.

#### GitOps: CI/CD to AWS

- CI/CD is fully automated for this repo using different GIT events & GitHub actions.
  - Versioning, tagging, creation of `CHANGELOG.md` and releasing is automated using [bump-everywhere](https://github.com/undergroundwires/bump-everywhere) action
- Everything that's merged in the master goes directly to production.

[![CI/CD to AWS with GitHub Actions](img/architecture/gitops.png)](.github/workflows/)
