.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/1-bug-report-scripts.md, before:

---
name: Bug report (script bug or unexpected script behavior)
about: Create a bug report for generated scripts to help privacy.sexy improve
labels: bug
title: '[BUG]: '
---

<!--
Thank you for reporting an issue with generated script(s).
Please fill in as much of the template below as you're able.
As a small open source project with small community, it can sometimes take a long time for issues to be addressed so please be patient. 
-->

### Description

<!--
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.
-->

### OS

<!--
Which OS are you using? What version of OS you were using?
On Windows you can find it using "Start button" > "Settings" > "System" > "About".
On macOS you can find it using "Apple menu (top left corner)" > "About This Mac".
-->

### Reproduction steps

<!--
How can the bug be recreated?
It's the most important information in the bug report. Bugs that cannot be reproduced cannot be fixed and verified.
E.g.
    1. Go to '...'
    2. Click on '....'
    3. Scroll down to '....'
    4. See error
-->

### Scripts

<!--
If applicable, please attach the generated privacy.sexy file instead of copy pasting which becomes too long.
-->

### Screenshots

<!--
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.
-->

### Additional information

<!--
If applicable, add any other context about the problem here.
-->

Commit message:

Add initial Linux support #150
Key features of Linux support:
- It supports python 3 scripts execution.
- It supports Flatpak and Snap installation for software
  clean-up/configurations.
- Extensive documentation.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/1-bug-report-scripts.md, after:

---
name: Bug report (script bug or unexpected script behavior)
about: Create a bug report for generated scripts to help privacy.sexy improve
labels: bug
title: '[BUG]: '
---

<!--
Thank you for reporting an issue with generated script(s).
Please fill in as much of the template below as you're able.
As a small open source project with small community, it can sometimes take a long time for issues to be addressed so please be patient. 
-->

### Description

<!--
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.
-->

### OS

<!--
Which OS are you using? What version of OS you were using?
On Windows: Open "Start button" > "Settings" > "System" > "About".
On macOS: Open "Apple menu (top left corner)" > "About This Mac".
On Linux: Open terminal > type: lsb_release -a > copy paste the result.
-->

### Reproduction steps

<!--
How can the bug be recreated?
It's the most important information in the bug report. Bugs that cannot be reproduced cannot be fixed and verified.
E.g.
    1. Go to '...'
    2. Click on '....'
    3. Scroll down to '....'
    4. See error
-->

### Scripts

<!--
If applicable, please attach the generated privacy.sexy file instead of copy pasting which becomes too long.
-->

### Screenshots

<!--
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.
-->

### Additional information

<!--
If applicable, add any other context about the problem here.
-->
