.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/2-bug-report-generic.md, before:

---
name: Bug report (unrelated to generated scripts)
about: Create a bug report that's not related to generated scripts to help privacy.sexy improve
labels: bug
title: '[BUG]: '
---

<!--
Thank you for reporting an issue.
Please fill in as much of the template below as you're able.
As a small open source project with small community, it can sometimes take a long time for issues to be addressed so please be patient. 
-->

### Describe the bug

<!-- A clear and concise description of what the bug is. -->

### To Reproduce

<!-- 
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error
-->

### Expected behavior

<!--
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.
-->

### Screenshots

<!--
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.
-->

### Distribution

<!--
If applicable, mention how you were using privacy.sexy when the bug was encountered:
- Web (on Desktop or mobile?)
- Or desktop (Windows, macOS or Linux?)
-->

### Additional context

<!--
Add any other context about the problem here.
-->

Commit message:

Improve issue templates
- Use same multi-lined comment convention
- Highlight that "additional information" in a bug report is optional
- Remove recommendation for pasting script in a bug report as it's too long
- Rename feature request issue file to follow same naming convention
- Document also creating a issue as a way to extend scripts
- Add reproduction steps in script bug reports
- Use names instead of commands in heading

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/2-bug-report-generic.md, after:

---
name: Bug report (unrelated to generated scripts)
about: Create a bug report that's not related to generated scripts to help privacy.sexy improve
labels: bug
title: '[BUG]: '
---

<!--
Thank you for reporting an issue.
Please fill in as much of the template below as you're able.
As a small open source project with small community, it can sometimes take a long time for issues to be addressed so please be patient. 
-->

### Description

<!--
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.
-->

### Reproduction steps

<!--
It's the most important information in the bug report. Bugs that cannot be reproduced cannot be fixed and verified.
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error
-->

### Expected behavior

<!--
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.
-->

### Screenshots

<!--
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.
-->

### Distribution

<!--
If applicable, mention how you were using privacy.sexy when the bug was encountered:
   - Web (on Desktop or mobile?)
   - Or desktop (Windows, macOS or Linux?)
-->

### Additional context

<!--
If applicable, add any other context about the problem here.
-->
