.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/4-new-script-suggestion.md, before:

---
name: New script suggestion
about: Suggest a new script for privacy.sexy
labels: enhancement
---

<!--
Thank you for suggesting an script to make privacy better. 🤗 
Please fill in as much of the template below as you're able.
You could alternatively send a PR directly (see CONTRIBUTING.md).
-->

### OS

<!--
Which OS will the new script configure?
Either "Windows" or "macOS".
-->

### Name

<!--
The name of the script.
It should start with an imperative noun such as "disable", "turn off" , "clear"...
E.g. "Disable webcam telemetry"
-->

### Script code

<!--
Code that will be executed when script is selected.
Try to keep it as simple and backwards-compatible as possible.
Allowed languages: 
  - macOS: bash (sh)
  - Windows: PowerShell (ps1) or batchfile
    - 💡 Prioritize the one that's simpler, batchfile if similar.
-->

### Revert code

<!--
If applicable, add code that will revert the script code to its original (OS default) state.
It may require additional time, but it's much appreciated by the community.
Leave blank if the script is nonreversible (e.g. when clearing data without backup).
-->

### Suggested category

<!--
If applicable, suggest one more multiple suitable parent category of script.
A category is the item where the script will be presented under.
Most likely there already is a category for the script, so check the existing categories.
If you're unsure, leave blank and maintainer(s) will choose one.
-->

### Suggested recommendation level

<!--
If applicable, suggest recommending the script or not recommending at all.
A script should be only recommended if it'll be safe for your grandmother to run.
So you have three options here:
  STANDARD: Non-breaking scripts that does not limit any functionality.
  STRICT: Scripts that can break certain functionality but not intrusive to common daily OS usage.
  NONE: Script is not recommended for newbies at all, only those who knows what's going on should select it.
If you're unsure, leave blank and maintainer(s) will choose one.
-->

### Additional documentation/references

<!-- 
If applicable, refer to documentation that should show up on the script description.
Sources (URLs) should be as high quality as possible e.g. vendor documentation is favored over user forums.
-->

Commit message:

Add initial Linux support #150
Key features of Linux support:
- It supports python 3 scripts execution.
- It supports Flatpak and Snap installation for software
  clean-up/configurations.
- Extensive documentation.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/4-new-script-suggestion.md, after:

---
name: New script suggestion
about: Suggest a new script for privacy.sexy
labels: enhancement
---

<!--
Thank you for suggesting an script to make privacy better. 🤗 
Please fill in as much of the template below as you're able.
You could alternatively send a PR directly (see CONTRIBUTING.md).
-->

### OS

<!--
Which OS will the new script configure?
One of the supported OSes: "Windows", "macOS" or "Linux".
-->

### Name

<!--
The name of the script.
It should start with an imperative noun such as "disable", "turn off" , "clear"...
E.g. "Disable webcam telemetry"
-->

### Script code

<!--
Code that will be executed when script is selected.
Try to keep it as simple and backwards-compatible as possible.
Allowed languages:
  - Windows: PowerShell (ps1) or batchfile
    - 💡 Prioritize the one that's simpler, batchfile if similar.
  - macOS: bash (sh)
  - Linux: bash (sh) or Python 3
    - 💡 Prioritize the one that's simpler, bash if similar.
-->

### Revert code

<!--
If applicable, add code that will revert the script code to its original (OS default) state.
It may require additional time, but it's much appreciated by the community.
Leave blank if the script is nonreversible (e.g. when clearing data without backup).
-->

### Suggested category

<!--
If applicable, suggest one more multiple suitable parent category of script.
A category is the item where the script will be presented under.
Most likely there already is a category for the script, so check the existing categories.
If you're unsure, leave blank and maintainer(s) will choose one.
-->

### Suggested recommendation level

<!--
If applicable, suggest recommending the script or not recommending at all.
A script should be only recommended if it'll be safe for your grandmother to run.
So you have three options here:
  STANDARD: Non-breaking scripts that does not limit any functionality.
  STRICT: Scripts that can break certain functionality but not intrusive to common daily OS usage.
  NONE: Script is not recommended for newbies at all, only those who knows what's going on should select it.
If you're unsure, leave blank and maintainer(s) will choose one.
-->

### Additional documentation/references

<!-- 
If applicable, refer to documentation that should show up on the script description.
Sources (URLs) should be as high quality as possible e.g. vendor documentation is favored over user forums.
-->
