.github/actions/force-ipv4/README.md, before:

# force-ipv4

## Overview

This GitHub action enforces IPv4 for all outgoing network requests. It addresses connectivity issues encountered in GitHub runners, where IPv6 requests may lead to timeouts due to the lack of IPv6 support [1] [2].

## Background

Some applications attempt network connections over IPv6.
Such as requests made by Node's `fetch` API causes `UND_ERR_CONNECT_TIMEOUT` errors [3] [4].
This happens when the software cannot handle this such as by using Happy Eyeballs [5] [6].

## Usage

To use this action in your GitHub workflow, add the following step before any job that requires network access:

```yaml
- name: Enforce IPv4 Connectivity
  uses: ./.github/actions/force-ipv4
```

## Note

This action is a workaround addressing specific IPv6-related connectivity issues on GitHub runners and may not be necessary if GitHub's infrastructure evolves to fully support IPv6 in the future.

[1]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185829/https://github.com/actions/runner/issues/3138 "Actions Runner fails on IPv6 only host · Issue #3138 · actions/runner · GitHub | github.com"
[2]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185838/https://github.com/actions/runner-images/issues/668 "IPv6 on GitHub-hosted runners · Issue #668 · actions/runner-images · GitHub | github.com"
[3]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185847/https://github.com/actions/runner/issues/3213 "GitHub runner cannot send `fetch` with `node`, failing with IPv6 DNS error `UND_ERR_CONNECT_TIMEOUT` · Issue #3213 · actions/runner · GitHub | github.com"
[4]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185853/https://github.com/actions/runner-images/issues/9540 "Cannot send outbound requests using node fetch, failing with IPv6 DNS error UND_ERR_CONNECT_TIMEOUT · Issue #9540 · actions/runner-images · GitHub | github.com"
[5]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185900/https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/41625 "Happy Eyeballs support (address IPv6 issues in Node 17) · Issue #41625 · nodejs/node · GitHub | github.com"
[6]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185910/https://github.com/nodejs/undici/issues/1531 "fetch times out in under 5 seconds · Issue #1531 · nodejs/undici · GitHub | github.com"

Commit message:

ci/cd: bump Node.js environment to 20.x
This commit upgrades Node.js version to v20.x in CI/CD environment.

Previously used Node 18.x is moving towards end-of-life, with a planned
date of 2025-04-30. In contrast, Node 20.x has been offering long-term
support (LTS) since 2023-10-24. This makes Node 20.x a stable and
recommended version for production environments.

This commit also configures `actions/setup-node` with the
`check-latest` flag to always use the latest Node 20.x version, keeping
CI/CD setup up-to-date with minimal maintenance.
Details:
- actions/setup-node#165
- actions/setup-node#160

Using Node 20.x in CI/CD environments provides better compatibility with
Electron v29.0 which moves to Node 20.x.
Details:
- electron/electron#40343

This upgrade improves network connection handling in CI/CD pipelines
(where issues occur due to GitHub runners not supporting IPv6).
Details:
- actions/runner#3138
- actions/runner-images#668
- actions/runner#3213
- actions/runner-images#9540

Node 20.x adopts the Happy Eyeballs algorithm for improved IPv6
connectivity.
- nodejs/node#40702
- nodejs/node#41625
- nodejs/node#44731

This mitigates issues like `UND_ERR_CONNECT_TIMEOUT` and localhost DNS
resolution in CI/CD environments:
Details:
- nodejs/node#40537
- actions/runner#3213
- actions/runner-images#9540

Node 20 introduces `setDefaultAutoSelectFamily`, a global function from
Node 19.4.0, enabling better IPv4 support, especially in environments
with limited or problematic IPv6 support.
Details:
- nodejs/node#45777

Node 20.x defaults to the new `autoSelectFamily`, improving network
connection reliability in GitHub runners lacking full IPv6 support.
Details:
- nodejs/node#46790

.github/actions/force-ipv4/README.md, after:

# force-ipv4

## Overview

This GitHub action enforces IPv4 for all outgoing network requests. It addresses connectivity issues encountered in GitHub runners, where IPv6 requests may lead to timeouts due to the lack of IPv6 support [1] [2].

## Background

Some applications attempt network connections over IPv6.
Such as requests made by Node's `fetch` API causes `UND_ERR_CONNECT_TIMEOUT` [3] [4] and similar issues [5].
This happens when the software cannot handle this such as by using Happy Eyeballs [6] [7].

## Usage

To use this action in your GitHub workflow, add the following step before any job that requires network access:

```yaml
- name: Enforce IPv4 Connectivity
  uses: ./.github/actions/force-ipv4
```

## Note

This action is a workaround addressing specific IPv6-related connectivity issues on GitHub runners and may not be necessary if GitHub's infrastructure evolves to fully support IPv6 in the future.

[1]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185829/https://github.com/actions/runner/issues/3138 "Actions Runner fails on IPv6 only host · Issue #3138 · actions/runner · GitHub | github.com"
[2]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185838/https://github.com/actions/runner-images/issues/668 "IPv6 on GitHub-hosted runners · Issue #668 · actions/runner-images · GitHub | github.com"
[3]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185847/https://github.com/actions/runner/issues/3213 "GitHub runner cannot send `fetch` with `node`, failing with IPv6 DNS error `UND_ERR_CONNECT_TIMEOUT` · Issue #3213 · actions/runner · GitHub | github.com"
[4]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185853/https://github.com/actions/runner-images/issues/9540 "Cannot send outbound requests using node fetch, failing with IPv6 DNS error UND_ERR_CONNECT_TIMEOUT · Issue #9540 · actions/runner-images · GitHub | github.com"
[5]: https://archive.today/2024.03.30-113315/https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/40537 "\"localhost\" favours IPv6 in node v17, used to favour IPv4 · Issue #40537 · nodejs/node · GitHub"
[6]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185900/https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/41625 "Happy Eyeballs support (address IPv6 issues in Node 17) · Issue #41625 · nodejs/node · GitHub | github.com"
[7]: https://archive.ph/2024.03.28-185910/https://github.com/nodejs/undici/issues/1531 "fetch times out in under 5 seconds · Issue #1531 · nodejs/undici · GitHub | github.com"
