docs/architecture.md, before:

# Architecture overview

This repository consists of:

- A [layered application](#layered-application).
- [AWS infrastructure](#aws-infrastructure) as code and instructions to host the website.
- [GitOps](#gitops) practices for development, maintenance and deployment.

## Layered application

Application is

- powered by **TypeScript**, **Vue.js** and **Electron** 💪,
- and driven by **Domain-driven design**, **Event-driven architecture**, **Data-driven programming** concepts.

Application uses highly decoupled models & services in different DDD layers:

- presentation layer (see [presentation.md](./presentation.md)),
- application layer (see [application.md](./application.md)),
- and domain layer.

Application layer depends on and consumes domain layer. [Presentation layer](./presentation.md) consumes and depends on application layer along with domain layer. Application and presentation layers can communicate through domain model.

![DDD + vue.js](./../img/architecture/app-ddd.png)

### Application state

State handling uses an event-driven subscription model to signal state changes and special functions to register changes. It does not depend on third party packages.

The presentation layer can read and modify state through the context. State changes trigger events that components can subscribe to for reactivity.

Each layer treat application layer differently.

![State](./../img/architecture/app-state.png)

*[Presentation layer](./presentation.md)*:

- Each component holds their own state about presentation-related data.
- Components register shared state changes into application state using functions.
- Components listen to shared state changes using event subscriptions.
- 📖 Read more: [presentation.md | Application state](./presentation.md#application-state).

*[Application layer](./application.md)*:

- Stores the application-specific state.
- The state it exposed for read with getter functions and set using setter functions, setter functions also fire application events that allows other parts of application and the view in presentation layer to react.
- So state is mutable, and fires related events when mutated.
- 📖 Read more: [application.md | Application state](./application.md#application-state).

It's comparable with `flux`, `vuex`, and `pinia`. A difference is that mutable application layer state in privacy.sexy is mutable and lies in single "store" that holds app state and logic. The "actions" mutate the state directly which in turns act as dispatcher to notify its own event subscriptions (callbacks).

## AWS infrastructure

The web-site runs on serverless AWS infrastructure. Infrastructure is open-source and deployed as code. [aws-static-site-with-cd](https://github.com/undergroundwires/aws-static-site-with-cd) project includes the source code.

[![AWS solution](../img/architecture/aws-solution.png)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/aws-static-site-with-cd)

The design priorities highest security then minimizing cloud infrastructure costs.

This project includes [GitHub Actions](../.github/workflows/) to automatically provision the infrastructure with zero-touch and without any "hidden" steps, ensuring everything is open-source and transparent. Git repositories includes all necessary instructions and automation with [GitOps](#gitops) practices.

## GitOps

CI/CD pipelines automate operational tasks based on different Git events. [bump-everywhere](https://github.com/undergroundwires/bump-everywhere) enables this automation.

📖 Read more in [`ci-cd.md`](./ci-cd.md#gitops).

[![CI/CD using GitHub Actions](../img/architecture/gitops.png)](../.github/workflows/)

Commit message:

Improve desktop security by isolating Electron
Enable `contextIsolation` in Electron to securely expose a limited set
of Node.js APIs to the renderer process. It:

1. Isolates renderer and main process contexts. It ensures that the
   powerful main process functions aren't directly accessible from
   renderer process(es), adding a security boundary.
2. Mitigates remote exploitation risks. By isolating contexts, potential
   malicious code injections in the renderer can't directly reach and
   compromise the main process.
3. Reduces attack surface.
4. Protect against prototype pollution: It prevents tampering of
   JavaScript object prototypes in one context from affecting another
   context, improving app reliability and security.

Supporting changes include:

- Extract environment and system operations classes to the infrastructure
  layer. This removes node dependencies from core domain and application
  code.
- Introduce `ISystemOperations` to encapsulate OS interactions. Use it
  from `CodeRunner` to isolate node API usage.
- Add a preloader script to inject validated environment variables into
  renderer context. This keeps Electron integration details
  encapsulated.
- Add new sanity check to fail fast on issues with preloader injected
  variables.
- Improve test coverage of runtime sanity checks and environment
  components. Move validation logic into separate classes for Single
  Responsibility.
- Improve absent value test case generation.

docs/architecture.md, after:

# Architecture overview

This repository consists of:

- A [layered application](#layered-application).
- [AWS infrastructure](#aws-infrastructure) as code and instructions to host the website.
- [GitOps](#gitops) practices for development, maintenance and deployment.

## Layered application

Application is

- powered by **TypeScript**, **Vue.js** and **Electron** 💪,
- and driven by **Domain-driven design**, **Event-driven architecture**, **Data-driven programming** concepts.

Application uses highly decoupled models & services in different DDD layers:

**Application layer** (see [application.md](./application.md)):

- Coordinates application activities and consumes the domain layer.

**Presentation layer** (see [presentation.md](./presentation.md)):

- Handles UI/UX, consumes both the application and domain layers.
- May communicate directly with the infrastructure layer for technical needs, but avoids domain logic.

**Domain layer**:

- Serves as the system's core and central truth.
- Facilitates communication between the application and presentation layers through the domain model.

**Infrastructure layer**:

- Manages technical implementations without dependencies on other layers or domain knowledge.

![DDD + vue.js](./../img/architecture/app-ddd.png)

### Application state

State handling uses an event-driven subscription model to signal state changes and special functions to register changes. It does not depend on third party packages.

The presentation layer can read and modify state through the context. State changes trigger events that components can subscribe to for reactivity.

Each layer treat application layer differently.

![State](./../img/architecture/app-state.png)

*[Presentation layer](./presentation.md)*:

- Each component holds their own state about presentation-related data.
- Components register shared state changes into application state using functions.
- Components listen to shared state changes using event subscriptions.
- 📖 Read more: [presentation.md | Application state](./presentation.md#application-state).

*[Application layer](./application.md)*:

- Stores the application-specific state.
- The state it exposed for read with getter functions and set using setter functions, setter functions also fire application events that allows other parts of application and the view in presentation layer to react.
- So state is mutable, and fires related events when mutated.
- 📖 Read more: [application.md | Application state](./application.md#application-state).

It's comparable with `flux`, `vuex`, and `pinia`. A difference is that mutable application layer state in privacy.sexy is mutable and lies in single "store" that holds app state and logic. The "actions" mutate the state directly which in turns act as dispatcher to notify its own event subscriptions (callbacks).

## AWS infrastructure

The web-site runs on serverless AWS infrastructure. Infrastructure is open-source and deployed as code. [aws-static-site-with-cd](https://github.com/undergroundwires/aws-static-site-with-cd) project includes the source code.

[![AWS solution](../img/architecture/aws-solution.png)](https://github.com/undergroundwires/aws-static-site-with-cd)

The design priorities highest security then minimizing cloud infrastructure costs.

This project includes [GitHub Actions](../.github/workflows/) to automatically provision the infrastructure with zero-touch and without any "hidden" steps, ensuring everything is open-source and transparent. Git repositories includes all necessary instructions and automation with [GitOps](#gitops) practices.

## GitOps

CI/CD pipelines automate operational tasks based on different Git events. [bump-everywhere](https://github.com/undergroundwires/bump-everywhere) enables this automation.

📖 Read more in [`ci-cd.md`](./ci-cd.md#gitops).

[![CI/CD using GitHub Actions](../img/architecture/gitops.png)](../.github/workflows/)
