docs/templating.md, before:

# Templating

## Benefits of templating

- Generating scripts by sharing code to increase best-practice usage and maintainability.
- Creating self-contained scripts without cross-dependencies.
- Use of pipes for writing cleaner code and letting pipes do dirty work.

## Expressions

- Expressions start and end with mustaches (double brackets, `{{` and `}}`).
  - E.g. `Hello {{ $name }} !`
- Syntax is close to [Go Templates ❤️](https://pkg.go.dev/text/template) that has inspired this templating language.
- Functions enables usage of expressions.
  - In script definition parts of a function, see [`Function`](./collection-files.md#Function).
  - When doing a call as argument values, see [`FunctionCall`](./collection-files.md#Function).

### Parameter substitution

A simple function example:

```yaml
  function: EchoArgument
  parameters:
    - name: 'argument'
  code: Hello {{ $argument }} !
```

It would print "Hello world" if it's called in a [script](./collection-files.md#script) as following:

```yaml
  script: Echo script
  call:
    function: EchoArgument
    parameters:
      argument: World
```

A function can call other functions such as:

```yaml
  - 
    function: CallerFunction
    parameters:
      - name: 'value'
    call:
      function: EchoArgument
      parameters:
        argument: {{ $value }}
  -
    function: EchoArgument
    parameters:
      - name: 'argument'
    code: Hello {{ $argument }} !
```

### with

Skips its "block" if the variable is absent or empty. Its "block" is between `with` start (`{{ with .. }}`) and end (`{{ end }`}) expressions.
E.g. `{{ with $parameterName }} Hi, I'm a block! {{ end }}` would only output `Hi, I'm a block!` if `parameterName` has any value..

It binds its context (value of the provided parameter value) as arbitrary `.` value. It allows you to use the argument value of the given parameter when it is provided and not empty such as:

```go
  {{ with $parameterName }}Parameter value is {{ . }} here {{ end }}
```

It supports multiline text inside the block. You can have something like:

```go
  {{ with $argument }}
    First line
    Second line
  {{ end }}
```

💡 Declare parameters used for `with` condition as optional. Set `optional: true` for the argument if you use it like `{{ with $argument }} .. {{ end }}`.

Example:

```yaml
  function: FunctionThatOutputsConditionally
  parameters:
    - name: 'argument'
      optional: true
  code: |- 
    {{ with $argument }}
      Value is: {{ . }}
    {{ end }}
```

### Pipes

- Pipes are functions available for handling text.
- Allows stacking actions one after another also known as "chaining".
- Like [Unix pipelines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipeline_(Unix)), the concept is simple: each pipeline's output becomes the input of the following pipe.
- You cannot create pipes. [A dedicated compiler](./application.md#parsing-and-compiling) provides pre-defined pipes to consume in collection files.
- You can combine pipes with other expressions such as [parameter substitution](#parameter-substitution) and [with](#with) syntax.
- ❗ Pipe names must be camelCase without any space or special characters.
- **Existing pipes**
  - `inlinePowerShell`: Converts a multi-lined PowerShell script to a single line.
  - `escapeDoubleQuotes`: Escapes `"` characters, allows you to use them inside double quotes (`"`).
- **Example usages**
  - `{{ with $code }} echo "{{ . | inlinePowerShell }}" {{ end }}`
  - `{{ with $code }} echo "{{ . | inlinePowerShell | escapeDoubleQuotes }}" {{ end }}`

Commit message:

Add support for nested templates
Add support for expressions inside expressions.

Add support for templating where the output of one expression results in
another template part with expressions.

E.g., this did not work before, but compilation will now evaluate both
with expression with `$condition` and parameter substitution with
`$text`:

```
{{ with $condition }}
  echo '{{ $text }}'
{{ end }}
```

Add also more sanity checks (validation logic) when compiling
expressions to reveal problems quickly.

docs/templating.md, after:

# Templating

## Benefits of templating

- Generating scripts by sharing code to increase best-practice usage and maintainability.
- Creating self-contained scripts without cross-dependencies.
- Use of pipes for writing cleaner code and letting pipes do dirty work.

## Expressions

- Expressions start and end with mustaches (double brackets, `{{` and `}}`).
  - E.g. `Hello {{ $name }} !`
- Syntax is close to [Go Templates ❤️](https://pkg.go.dev/text/template) but not the same.
- Functions enables usage of expressions.
  - In script definition parts of a function, see [`Function`](./collection-files.md#Function).
  - When doing a call as argument values, see [`FunctionCall`](./collection-files.md#Function).
- Expressions inside expressions (nested templates) are supported.
  - An expression can output another expression that will also be compiled.
  - E.g. following would compile first [with expression](#with), and then [parameter substitution](#parameter-substitution) in its output.

    ```go
      {{ with $condition }}
        echo {{ $text }}
      {{ end }}
    ```

### Parameter substitution

A simple function example:

```yaml
  function: EchoArgument
  parameters:
    - name: 'argument'
  code: Hello {{ $argument }} !
```

It would print "Hello world" if it's called in a [script](./collection-files.md#script) as following:

```yaml
  script: Echo script
  call:
    function: EchoArgument
    parameters:
      argument: World
```

A function can call other functions such as:

```yaml
  - 
    function: CallerFunction
    parameters:
      - name: 'value'
    call:
      function: EchoArgument
      parameters:
        argument: {{ $value }}
  -
    function: EchoArgument
    parameters:
      - name: 'argument'
    code: Hello {{ $argument }} !
```

### with

Skips its "block" if the variable is absent or empty. Its "block" is between `with` start (`{{ with .. }}`) and end (`{{ end }`}) expressions.
E.g. `{{ with $parameterName }} Hi, I'm a block! {{ end }}` would only output `Hi, I'm a block!` if `parameterName` has any value..

It binds its context (value of the provided parameter value) as arbitrary `.` value. It allows you to use the argument value of the given parameter when it is provided and not empty such as:

```go
  {{ with $parameterName }}Parameter value is {{ . }} here {{ end }}
```

It supports multiline text inside the block. You can have something like:

```go
  {{ with $argument }}
    First line
    Second line
  {{ end }}
```

You can also use other expressions inside its block, such as [parameter substitution](#parameter-substitution):

```go
  {{ with $condition }}
    This is a different parameter: {{ $text }}
  {{ end }}
```

💡 Declare parameters used for `with` condition as optional. Set `optional: true` for the argument if you use it like `{{ with $argument }} .. {{ end }}`.

Example:

```yaml
  function: FunctionThatOutputsConditionally
  parameters:
    - name: 'argument'
      optional: true
  code: |- 
    {{ with $argument }}
      Value is: {{ . }}
    {{ end }}
```

### Pipes

- Pipes are functions available for handling text.
- Allows stacking actions one after another also known as "chaining".
- Like [Unix pipelines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipeline_(Unix)), the concept is simple: each pipeline's output becomes the input of the following pipe.
- You cannot create pipes. [A dedicated compiler](./application.md#parsing-and-compiling) provides pre-defined pipes to consume in collection files.
- You can combine pipes with other expressions such as [parameter substitution](#parameter-substitution) and [with](#with) syntax.
- ❗ Pipe names must be camelCase without any space or special characters.
- **Existing pipes**
  - `inlinePowerShell`: Converts a multi-lined PowerShell script to a single line.
  - `escapeDoubleQuotes`: Escapes `"` characters, allows you to use them inside double quotes (`"`).
- **Example usages**
  - `{{ with $code }} echo "{{ . | inlinePowerShell }}" {{ end }}`
  - `{{ with $code }} echo "{{ . | inlinePowerShell | escapeDoubleQuotes }}" {{ end }}`
